# SCI_AIChatBot
This repository contains the code for our SCI AI Chatbot, named Jimothy.
Our group’s timeline: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5_Ow--jDp4IKOFY4yDoUXDYvujg7LPzuJG6LA_9GOQ/edit
Our group’s presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Y8pqaEU8WDA5cWTf9TYAbRdZqES7PriihcJfFHPFyUs/edit#slide=id.g1a595d044df_0_180

SCI 200 Final Project: Jimothy the Sarcastic AI Chatbot

Grand Challenge and Solution
Our grand challenge is to pursue the effort toward making AI chatbots more useful, creative, and exciting. To contribute to that effort, we have developed a sarcastic AI chatbot named “Jimothy.” It is programmed to express a suitable sarcastic tone, attitude, or opinion to any input the under gives it. To develop our chatbot, we retrieved a template code from Marv the Sarcastic Chatbot from OpenAI, and we eventually modified the code so that our chatbot is more empathetic and is centered on a particular topic (i.e. the rapper Eminem). One way our chatbot can improve the role of chatbots is that it can improve the experience of video gamers by serving as a non-player character (NPC). It would be useful for developing a unique NPC because its ability to deliver a suitable sarcastic response to whatever input you give makes it uniquely interactive. Another way it can improve the role of chatbots is that it can offer online mental therapy. Some people do not have access to a real mental therapist due to high costs or an excessively long distance to the nearest therapist. Hence, our chatbot Jimothy can provide those people with a convenient mental therapy interface online. Jimothy would be a suitable mental therapist because its sarcastic personality allows it to empathize with people who frequently experience unhappiness. 

Progress This Semester
We had three interim deliverables this semester: Interim Deliverable 1 in late September, Interim Deliverable 2 between the middle and the end of October, and Interim Deliverable 3 in the middle of November. For Interim Deliverable 1, we were supposed to draft a rough outline of the questions, responses, and algorithms we expect our code to contain, and we were supposed to brainstorm what personality Jimothy should express. We have accomplished both of those goals because the personality we have decided to give Jimothy is sarcasm and the kind of responses we have decided to program Jimothy to deliver are sarcastic responses related to the rapper Eminem. For Interim Deliverable 2, we were supposed to complete the first half of our code, check whether the first five pairs of questions and responses work, and check whether the error messages work. This interim deliverable was also successful because the first five pairs of questions and responses and the error messages did work. For Interim Deliverable 3, our goals were to complete the rough draft of the entire code, to ensure that our chatbot works until the cap limit is reached, and to make the questions and responses of our code more specific. We have completed the rough draft of the entire code and have ensured that our chatbot works until the cap limit is reached, but we still need some time next semester to make our questions and responses more specific. 

Obstacles
Despite our accomplishments this semester, there were some obstacles that hindered us from following our timeline. To indicate, we had a goal on the week of October 5 of emailing OpenAI to request an access number. However, we did not receive the number until a month later, so we retrieved the template code from Marv the Sarcastic Chatbot a month later than we expected. For the same week, we had a goal of ensuring that all of us can access the code, but even now not all of us have access to it because Marissa and Quillan still needed some more time to comment on the code for all of us to comprehend it. However, we did not pressure them to share the code as soon as possible because we understood that it would be pointless for us to have access to a coding project we cannot comprehend. Another obstacle was that some of our meetings with Professor Jonathan Humphreys were canceled due to his busy schedule. Nevertheless, this obstacle did not substantially hinder our progress because we arranged our own meetings to make up for the canceled meetings. For instance, we met on October 25 to work on our Final Timeline before the day it was due. Despite all the obstacles we have gone through, we still made a satisfactory amount of progress because we had a timeline that motivated us to stay on track with our project. 

Tasks for Next Semester
There are many tasks we plan to implement next semester. One of those tasks is to apply an animation feature to bring our chatbot to life. Second, we plan to implement a speech-to-text option so that our chatbot can detect what we orally say to it, just like Siri. Third, we plan to incorporate the personality of someone, particularly the Chapman University president Daniele Struppa, into our chatbot so that our chatbot can behave more like a human. Fourth, we will refine the sarcastic personality of our chatbot by removing or modifying statements that are not sarcastic or specific enough, and we will expand our chatbot’s realm of conversation by adding more sarcastic statements. Most importantly, our main goal for next semester is to obtain a patent to develop an app for our chatbot.

What We Have Learned about Team Collaboration This Semester
This semester we have learned a lot about team collaboration. We have learned that communication is key because it keeps us aware of what we are doing for our project. For example, there were several times at which Devin reminded the rest of us that assignments would be due soon so that we can complete them. This brings us to another lesson we have learned about team collaboration, which is that meeting up is also essential to our team progress. A month ago, for example, we arranged a meeting to work on the Final Timeline before the day it was due. The reason meeting up is so important to our team progress is because it provides us with more opportunities for communication, which is previously mentioned to be essential to our team progress. The third lesson we have learned is that the ability to understand a task is also vital to teamwork. In the case of our project this semester, not all of us could gain access to our coding project because the code still required comments for us to comprehend it. This has taught us that we cannot work together as a team until we all understand the task. Lastly, we have learned that timelines are helpful even if you cannot follow them exactly. For instance, we have set the goal for the week of October 5th to ensure that everyone has access to our coding project, but even now not all of us have access to it. Also, the timeline contained several times to meet with Professor Humphreys, but some of them got canceled. Despite all those failures to follow our timeline, our timeline motivated us to stay on track with our project, so we were able to make a satisfying amount of progress through our project this semester. We have learned so much about teamwork this semester, so we can apply our teamwork skills we have learned from this course to the teams we will work with in the real world.

